# Taxonomy for Quality Indicator Assessment
    \item \textbf{Governance and responsibility:} The dimension of Governance and Responsibility requires an integrated approach. This involves implementing various mechanisms and standards, such as effective corporate governance, periodic reviews, and transparent accountability to stakeholders. It also includes defining responsibilities, engaging relevant stakeholders in quality improvement and public accountability, and upholding principles of public interest governance. In addition, fostering a welcoming institutional climate, preventing violence, ensuring student well-being, and demonstrating collaborative pedagogical leadership by the management team are essential for primary and secondary schools. This integrated framework enables a comprehensive assessment of governance and responsibility, emphasizing both student safety and growth, as well as alignment with educational objectives across educational institutions.
    \item \textbf{Institutional Development:} Measuring the quality of education in the dimension of Institutional Development requires the establishment of a clear path to guide institutional efforts. This path encompasses evaluating the university's mission, objectives, goals, and values. Additionally, it involves the implementation of strategic and operational planning that aligns with the educational model and engages the university community. This comprehensive approach ensures that strategic planning supports curriculum alignment and continually enhances processes to promote the holistic development and comprehensive education of students, underpinned by international evidence and the guidance of responsible bodies.
    \item \textbf{Quality management, culture of self-evaluation for maintenance and improvement:} To ensure the quality of education in the dimension of Quality Management, there's a strong emphasis on the development of a culture of self-evaluation for maintenance and improvement. This culture includes the implementation of internal quality management systems within universities, fostering continuous improvement in their core functions, and subsequent external audits based on local criteria. Furthermore, it requires a commitment to maintain and enhance Basic Quality Conditions, establishing a strategy for continuous quality management and fostering a collective and institutionalized dedication to ever-increasing self-imposed standards of excellence. Managing institutional information and performance data is crucial, facilitating planning, implementation, and evaluation of improvements to enhance comprehensive development, learning outcomes, and the achievement of institutional objectives.
    \item \textbf{Economic and financial management:} Measuring the quality of education within the dimension of Economic and Financial Management necessitates a comprehensive approach. This involves assessing budget execution, financial performance, and the resources allocated to maintain and enhance service quality. Key indicators such as financial sustainability, viability, and stability are integral to this evaluation. Ensuring universities have credible strategic and commercial plans, conduct regular financial audits, and implement safeguards to protect students' financial investments in the event of institutional closure is essential. The overarching goal is to consolidate economic and financial sustainability while ensuring resource allocation aligns with institutional objectives, contributing to a sound economic foundation for educational institutions.
    \item \textbf{Information management:} Measuring the quality of education in the dimension of Information Management underscores the critical role of information in both internal and external processes. This involves implementing a robust document and file management system that ensures the authenticity, reliability, completeness, and availability of physical and digital documents, thereby enhancing university processes and services while fostering knowledge creation. The use of information as a foundation for decision-making and improvement actions in training programs is paramount. Moreover, managing information about the organization and institutional performance is essential for planning, implementing, and evaluating improvements that impact comprehensive development, learning outcomes, and institutional objectives. Ultimately, the objective is to provide the necessary conditions for university communities and relevant stakeholders to base their decisions on reliable, updated, and useful information, thereby promoting informed and effective decision-making.
    \item \textbf{Interinstitutional networks:} Measuring the quality of education in the dimension of Interinstitutional Networks requires the establishment of a supportive environment for institutional development through collaboration and associativity. This involves adherence to internationalization standards that demand planning, internal organization, and formal agreements with international higher education institutions to facilitate academic exchange opportunities for teachers and students. Furthermore, institutions must develop and implement an Institutional Policy for Internationalization, focusing on cooperation and exchange programs, overseen by a responsible group coordinating international agreements. Lastly, a commitment to joint efforts with families and the community is emphasized in primary and secondary education, with actions aimed at strengthening pedagogical processes and enhancing the educational institution's identity and engagement with its community, thereby promoting comprehensive quality education.
    \item \textbf{Physical and technological infrastructure:} To measure the quality of education within the dimension of Physical and Technological Infrastructure, it's essential to acknowledge the evolving global education landscape influenced by technological advancements. This shift necessitates evaluating both physical and technological infrastructure as critical supports for educational service delivery. The management of infrastructure, addressing the needs of the entire educational community, is central to fostering pedagogical processes and student learning. The goal is to ensure a safe, sustainable provision of resources at both physical and technological levels, thereby consolidating the ability to fulfill institutional purposes and adapt to the changing educational environment.
    \item \textbf{Non-teaching staff:} Assessing the quality of education concerning Non-teaching Staff highlights the critical role that effective human resource management plays in the overall success of educational institutions. The contributions of non-teaching personnel are pivotal in upholding the fundamental operations of primary and secondary schools, technological programs and universities. This involves adherence to standards and procedures related to the selection, hiring, evaluation, and improvement of management, academic, and administrative personnel. To ensure the effective and efficient contribution of support personnel to the university's functions, it's crucial to provide conducive conditions. Additionally, institutions must actively promote the development of capabilities among support and administrative staff to enhance their performance in supporting institutional endeavors, ultimately contributing to the overall quality of education.
    \item \textbf{Study Plans: }Measuring the quality of education across various educational levels, in the dimension of “Study Plan”, involves several vital elements. The "Course Design" standard outlines crucial components within study plan structures for technological programs and universities, encompassing teaching methods, expected learning outcomes, evaluation criteria, and mandatory requirements, particularly for research-focused master's and doctoral programs. Specific guidelines for postgraduate program evaluation are essential, along with justifications supporting curricular design's relevance and alignment with local, regional, and national needs. This approach aims to prepare professionals who can effectively respond to diverse contexts. In contrast, for primary and secondary schools, curriculum diversification and high-performance standards are key to guiding pedagogical processes that foster comprehensive development and learning, emphasizing alignment with the institutional curriculum to deliver effective interventions for children and adolescents.
    \item \textbf{Resources for study and learning:} Measuring the quality of education in the dimension of Resources for Study and Learning involves different criteria for technological programs and universities compared to primary and secondary schools. For technological programs and universities, this dimension encompasses elements like information and reference centers and virtual learning systems, assessed through indicators such as Libraries, Documentation Centres, and Publications. The standard "Resources for Learning and Educational Support" aims to provide conducive conditions for both individual and collective study and learning environments. In contrast, for primary and secondary schools, the emphasis is on managing resources that enhance overall development, facilitate learning achievements, and cater to the specific needs of children and adolescents.
    \item \textbf{Management of academic processes:} This involves distinct criteria for primary and secondary schools compared to technological programs and universities. For technological programs and universities, the focus includes admission, retention, and timely graduation processes, with an emphasis on leveling, academic tutoring, and support for graduation. There are specific requirements for student attendance policies and predefined regulations to ensure a student-centered educational process. Strategies to support students from their initial contact with the service must align with the institution's educational model and program objectives to orient the entire teaching-learning process from admission to achieving expected learning outcomes. In primary and secondary schools, the dimension centers on the well-being and comprehensive development of children and adolescents. This includes implementing actions for complementary services, tutoring, and guidance tailored to individual needs. Pedagogical strategies aligned with curricular programming are employed to create a welcoming classroom climate. The institutions monitor the development and performance of students concerning learning competencies and standards, actively involving students in the process to ensure a comprehensive learning experience.
    \item \textbf{Teachers:} This involves distinct criteria for technological programs and universities compared to primary and secondary schools. In technological programs and universities, there is a strong emphasis on fortifying the teaching career, underpinned by regulations and institutional policies aimed at enhancing the skills and conditions of the teaching staff, along with well-defined procedures for tenure and promotion. The primary objective is to establish a permanent and highly qualified teaching staff engaged in a continual process of improvement to effectively advance institutional goals. Meanwhile, in primary and secondary schools, the focal point revolves around pedagogical support, the encouragement of innovation, specialization, and disciplinary updates for teachers. These measures are designed to equip the teaching team with the necessary skills to facilitate comprehensive learning and ensure the holistic development of all children and adolescents.
    \item \textbf{Health, safety, and well-being:} This involves distinct criteria for primary and secondary education compared to university and technological programs. For universities and technological programs, the focus is on safeguarding the well-being of the university community and ensuring comprehensive student development. This entails the provision of services to enhance well-being, reduce dropout rates, and contribute to a healthier university life. It includes the establishment of a well-being model as a quality condition, strategies and mechanisms to improve student well-being, persistence, and graduation, as well as protection plans for students and mechanisms for addressing concerns and complaints. In contrast, for primary and secondary education, the institutions manage specialized complementary care services in health, nutrition, psychology, and more to cater to the specific needs of children and adolescents requiring such services.
    \item \textbf{Relationship with the surroundings:} Assessing the quality of education in terms of its connection with the environment highlights distinct criteria for primary and secondary education when compared to universities and technological programs. In universities and technological programs, the emphasis is on establishing formal and systematic mechanisms for connecting with the external environment and fostering active engagement with the productive, social, and cultural sectors. This dimension also includes actions aimed at contributing to sustainable development and social well-being, such as university social service programs and environmental approaches integrated into professional training, research, and institutional management. In contrast, primary and secondary education emphasizes collaboration with families and the community, striving to enhance pedagogical processes while strengthening the institution's identity and commitment to the local community's development.
    \item \textbf{Social inclusion:} This dimension encompasses promoting equal opportunities for historically disadvantaged groups, implementing institutional policies that value diversity, and establishing affirmative actions to support human rights and ethnic-racial equality. The evaluation standards include "Equal opportunities," which focuses on promoting equal access, retention, and qualifications; the "Inclusion and Equity" standard, encouraging policies and strategies for identifying students with special learning needs, particularly among historically excluded groups; and the "Diversity and Equity" standard, emphasizing the design of institutional policies and practices for teaching and learning that address the diverse needs and underrepresentation of certain student groups.
    \item \textbf{Mediation and labor insertion mechanisms:} In the context of universities and technological programs, the focus is on promoting adequate labor insertion, ensuring successful outcomes for all students, and strengthening teaching-learning processes through graduate monitoring. The goal is to orient institutional efforts toward appropriate job placement and continuous improvement of institutional processes. For primary and secondary schools, the emphasis lies in implementing mechanisms and strategies to assess the attainment of the graduation profile, the satisfaction of parents, children, and adolescents with the services they receive, and monitoring the progress of graduates.
